.\"
.\"    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"    (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"    GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"    Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH Drawing 3fe "7/11/94" "Version 2.21" "Finite Element Package"
.SH NAME
Drawing - general purpose drawing widget
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "# include <X11/Intrinsic.h>"
.br
\fB# include "Drawing.h"\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These files define a general purpose drawing widget that is subclass of the
Athena \fISimple\fR widget.  The widget provides a scalable, two dimensional
drawing area with a cartesian coordinate system and an optional background
grid and pointer snap.  The widget is intended to provide mechanisms and not
policies.  For example, there is no "select rectangular area with mouse"
feature.  Instead, the application writer can specify callbacks associated
with pointer movement and mouse button actions.
.PP
The widget operations allow the creation, removal, and dynamic configuration
of figures.  The figures are maintained on a display list by the widget.
Figures are referenced by the application writer though the opaque type
\fIFigure\fR.  The current figure types include lines, polygons, rectangles,
arcs, text, pixmaps, bitmaps, and groups.  The properties associated with
figures include grouping, scaling, line width, line style, visibility, color,
and position.
.PP
.SH RESOURCES
The \fIDrawing\fR widget adds the following resources to the Athena
\fISimple\fR widget:
.TP 5
\fBXtNcoordinates\fR (class \fBXtCCoordinates\fR) XtRWidget
Specifies a \fIlabel\fR widget to be used in displaying the current
coordinates of the pointer within the widget or \s-1NULL\s+1 if no display is
desired.  Default value: \s-1NULL\s+1
.TP
\fBXtNgrid\fR (class \fBXtCGrid\fR) XtRBoolean
Specifies if the background grid should be displayed.  The grid consists of a
series of intersecting dashed lines lying behind all figures whose spacing is
specified by the \fBgridSize\fR resource.  Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
\fBXtNgridSize\fR (class \fBXtCGridSize\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the grid spacing in real units.  The grid lines will be drawn with
spacing according to the value of this resource if the \fBgrid\fR resource is
\fBTrue\fR.  Default value: 1.00
.TP
\fBXtNsnap\fR (class \fBXtCSnap\fR) XtRBoolean
Specifies if pointer snap should be enabled.  Pointer snap indicates that in
addition to reporting the actual coordinates of the pointer in a callback,
the coordinates lying closest to the pointer and along an invisible grid
whose spacing is given by the \fBsnapSize\fR resource should also be
reported.
.TP
\fBXtNSnapSize\fR (class \fBXtCSnapSize\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the snap grid spacing in real units.  The invisible snap grid with
be spaced according to the value of this resource.  This resource has no
effect if the \fBsnap\fR resource is \fBFalse\fR.  Default value: 1.00
.TP
\fBXtNxMin\fR (class \fBXtCXMin\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the minimum value for the x axis.  This value must be less than the
value specified by the \fBxMax\fR resource.  Default value: 0.0
.TP
\fBXtNxMax\fR (class \fBXtCXMax\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the maximum value for the x axis.  This value must be greater than
the value specified by the \fBxMin\fR resource.  Default value: 10.0
.TP
\fBXtNyMin\fR (class \fBXtCYMin\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the minimum value for the y axis.  This value must be less than the
value specified by the \fByMax\fR resource.  Default value: 0.0
.TP
\fBXtNyMax\fR (class \fBXtCYMax\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the maximum value for the y axis.  This value must be greater than
the value specified by the \fByMin\fR resource.  Default value: 10.0
.TP
\fBXtNxScale\fR (class \fBXtCXScale\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the scale for the x axis in pixels per real unit.  This value must
be greater than zero.  Default value: 50.0
.TP
\fBXtNyScale\fR (class \fBXtCYScale\fR) XtRFloat
Specifies the scale for the y axis in pixels per real unit.  This value must
be greater than zero.  Default value: 50.0
.TP
\fBXtNbuttonCallback\fR (class \fBXtCButtonCallback\fR) XtRCallback
A callback list whose procedures should be called upon a button action
(press, release, or drag).  These events include \fBButtonPress\fR,
\fBButtonRelease\fR, and \fBMotionNotify\fR events.  The call data to the
callback procedure will be a pointer to a \fBDrawingReport\fR structure which
includes both the snapped and unsnapped coordinates (the snapped coordinates
will be identical to the unsnapped coordinates if the \fBsnap\fR resource is
\fBFalse\fR) and a pointer to the corresponding \fBXEvent\fR structure.  The
topmost figure located under the pointer will also be included if the
\fBautoFind\fR resource is \fBTrue\fR and the corresponding event type is
\fBButtonPress\fR.  Default value: \s-1NULL\s+1
.TP
\fBXtNmotionCallback\fR (class \fBXtCMotionCallback\fR) XtRCallback
A callback list whose procedures should be called upon pointer motion in the
widget.  The call data to the callback procedure will be a pointer to a
\fBDrawingReport\fR structure as described above.  The corresponding event
type will always be \fBMotionNotify\fR.  Default value: \s-1NULL\s+1
.TP
\fBXtNinteractive\fR (class \fBXtCInteractive\fR) XtRBoolean
Specifies if interactive drawing mode is enabled.  In interactive mode, an
exclusive-or graphics context is used which provides for more efficient
redrawing and removal of figures than if the normal graphics context were
used.  However, the exclusive-or graphics context does not handle exposure
events properly.  Thus, interactive mode should be used for any interactive
operations such as moving a figure by following the pointer.  The general
policy should be to enable interactive mode, perform the necessary operation,
and then disable interactive mode.  The preferred way to set this resource is
through the \fBDW_SetInteractive\fR function.  Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
\fBXtNautoFind\fR (class \fBXtCAutoFind\fR) XtRBoolean
Specifies if the display list is to be searched upon a button press.  If this
resource is \fBTrue\fR then the topmost figure located under the pointer, or
\s-1NULL\s+1 if no such figure exists, will be returned in the
\fBDrawingReport\fR structure.  The preferred way to set this resource is
through the \fBDW_SetAutoFind\fR function.  Default value: \fBFalse\fR
.TP
\fBXtNautoRedraw\fR (class \fBXtCAutoRedraw\fR) XtRBoolean
Normally the display list is automatically redrawn upon a change to the
display list though a \fBDW_RemoveFigure\fR, \fBDW_LowerFigure\fR, or
\fBDW_SetAttributes\fR operation.  If this resource is \fBFalse\fR then the
display list will not automatically be redrawn and the corresponding redraw
requests will be buffered.  Upon setting this resource to \fBTrue\fR, any
buffered requests will be processed.  The general policy should be to disable
redrawing before making substantial changes to the display list and to
re-enable redrawing once those changes are complete.  The preferred way to
set this resource is through the \fBDW_SetAutoRedraw\fR function.  Default
value: \fBTrue\fR
.PP
For convenience a function, \fBFloat2Arg\fR, is provided which converts a
floating point value to an \fBArg\fR suitable for use with \fBXtSetArg\fR.
.SH OPERATIONS
The \fIDrawing\fR widget provides a variety of functions for drawing figures,
altering the display list, changing the internal state of the widget, and
retrieving information about the widget:
.PP
.nf
.B "Figure DW_DrawLine (drawing, x1, y1, x2, y2)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B float
.B x1, y1;
.TP
.B float
.B x2, y2;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_DrawLine\fR draws a line in the current foreground color from
(\fIx1\fR,\fIy1\fR) to (\fIx2\fR,\fIy2\fR) using \fBXDrawLine\fR.  The figure
representing the line, or \s-1NULL\s+1 upon an error, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_DrawPolygon (drawing, scaled, points, npoints)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B scaled;
.TP
.B Point
.B points [ ];
.TP
.B int
.B npoints;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_DrawPolygon\fR draws a optionally scaled polygon whose vertices are
given in the \fIpoints\fR array in the current foreground color using
\fBXDrawLines\fR.  The number of vertices is specified by \fInpoints\fR.  If
a closed polygon is desired then the first and last vertices should be
identical.  If \fIscaled\fR is \fBTrue\fR then the polygon will be scaled,
indicating that the vertices should rescale as the widget is rescaled.
Unscaled polygons are not currently supported.  The figure representing the
polygon, or \s-1NULL\s+1 upon an error, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_FillPolygon (drawing, scaled, points, npoints)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B scaled;
.TP
.B Point
.B points [ ];
.TP
.B int
.B npoints;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_FillPolygon\fR draws a filled polygon figure using \fBXFillPolygon\fR
in the same manner as \fBDW_DrawPolygon\fR.  However, if a closed polygon is
desired the first and last vertices need not be identical.  The figure
representing the polygon, or \s-1NULL\s+1 upon an error, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_DrawRectangle (drawing, scaled, x, y, width, height)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B scaled;
.TP
.B float
.B x, y;
.TP
.B float
.B width, height;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_DrawRectangle\fR draws a rectangle in the current foreground color
using \fBXDrawRectangle\fR.  The bottom left corner of the rectangle is
located at (\fIx\fR,\fIy\fR).  The dimensions of the rectangle are specified
by the \fIwidth\fR and \fIheight\fR parameters.  A positive dimension is
along the corresponding axis and a negative dimension is opposite from the
corresponding axis.  If \fIscaled\fR is \fBTrue\fR then the rectangle will be
rescaled as the widget is rescaled.  If \fIscaled\fR is \fBFalse\fR then
\fIwidth\fR and \fIheight\fR specify the dimensions in pixels which will not
rescale.  The figure representing the rectangle, or \s-1NULL\s+1 upon an
error, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_FillRectangle (drawing, scaled, x, y, width, height)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B scaled;
.TP
.B float
.B x, y;
.TP
.B float
.B width, height;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_FillRectangle\fR is identical to \fBDW_DrawRectangle\fR except a filled
rectangle is drawn using \fBXFillRectangle\fR.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_DrawArc (drawing, scaled, x, y, width, height, angle, length)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B scaled;
.TP
.B float
.B x, y;
.TP
.B float
.B width, height;
.TP
.B float
.B angle, length;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_DrawArc\fR draws an arc in the current foreground color using
\fBXDrawArc\fR.  The arc is drawn inscribed in a rectangle whose center is
located at (\fIx\fR,\fIy\fR) and whose dimensions are specified by
\fIwidth\fR and \fIheight\fR.  The starting angle in degrees in specified by
\fIangle\fR and the arc length is specified by \fIlength\fR.  Scaling, as
specified by the \fIscaled\fR parameter, is similar to
\fBDW_DrawRectangle\fR.  The figure representing the arc, or \s-1NULL\s+1
upon an error, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_FillArc (drawing, scaled, x, y, width, height, angle, length)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B scaled;
.TP
.B float
.B x, y;
.TP
.B float
.B width, height;
.TP
.B float
.B angle, length;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_FillArc\fR is identical to \fBDW_DrawArc\fR except a filled arc is
drawn using \fBXFillArc\fR.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_DrawText (drawing, scaled, x, y, text)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B scaled;
.TP
.B float
.B x, y;
.TP
.B String
.B text;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_DrawText\fR draws a text figure in the current foreground color and
font using \fBXDrawString\fR.  The lower left corner of the text is located
at (\fIx\fR,\fIy\fR).  The text string is specified by \fItext\fR and must be
null terminated.  The \fIscaled\fR flag is currently ignored.  The figure
representing the text, or \s-1NULL\s+1 upon an error, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_FindFigure (drawing, x, y)
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B float
.B x, y;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_FindFigure\fR searches the display list for the topmost figure which
includes the point (\fIx\fR,\fIy\fR).  This function is used if the
\fBautoFind\fR resource is \fBTrue\fR and a \fBButtonPress\fR event has
occurred.  If the located figure is a member of a group then the figure
representing the group is returned.  Otherwise the located figure, or
\s-1NULL\s+1 if no such figure exists, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_RaiseFigure (drawing, figure)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Figure
.B figure;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_RaiseFigure\fR raises the figure specified by \fIfigure\fR to the top
of the display list.  If \fIfigure\fR is \s-1NULL\s+1 then no changes are
made to the display list.  If \fIfigure\fR is of type \fBGroupFigure\fR then
all figures in the group are raised.  A redraw request is not issued as the
specified figures are simply redrawn.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_LowerFigure (drawing, figure)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Figure
.B figure;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_LowerFigure\fR lowers the figure specified by \fIfigure\fR to the
bottom of the display list.  If \fIfigure\fR is \s-1NULL\s+1 then no changes
are made to the display list.  If \fIfigure\fR is of type \fBGroupFigure\fR
then all figures in the group are lowered.  A redraw request is issued for
each figure which is lowered (see the \fBautoRedraw\fR resource for details).
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_RemoveFigure (drawing, figure)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Figure
.B figure;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_RemoveFigure\fR removes the figure specified by \fIfigure\fR from the
display list.  If \fIfigure\fR is \s-1NULL\s+1 then no changes are made to
the display list.  If \fIfigure\fR is of type \fBGroupFigure\fR then all
figures in the group are removed.  A redraw request is issued for each figure
which is removed (see the \fBautoRedraw\fR resource for details).
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_RemoveAll (drawing)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_RemoveAll\fR removes all figures from the display list, effectively
clearing the widget.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_Redraw (drawing)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_Redraw\fR forces a redraw of the entire display list.  This function
should ideally never need to be called.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_GetAttributes (drawing, figure, attributes)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 19
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Figure
.B figure;
.TP
.B FigureAttributes
.B *attributes;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_GetAttributes\fR retrieves the attributes associated with the figure
specified by \fIfigure\fR.  The attributes are returned in the structure
pointed to by \fIattributes\fR.  A \fBFigureAttributes\fR structure includes
the following members which apply to the types of figures as indicated.
.PP
.nf
.PD 0
.RS
.TP 27
.B FigureType type;
// all figures (read only)
.TP
.B Figure group;
// all figures
.TP
.B unsigned line_width;
// lines, polygons, rectangles, arcs
.TP
.B int line_style;
// lines, polygons, rectangles, arcs
.TP
.B Boolean visible;
// lines, polygons, rectangles, arcs, text
.TP
.B Boolean filled;
// polygons, rectangles, arcs
.TP
.B Boolean scaled;
// polygons, rectangles, arcs, text
.TP
.B String color;
// lines, polygons, rectangles, arcs, text
.TP
.B String text;
// text
.TP
.B String font;
// text
.TP
.B float x;
// rectangles, arcs, text
.TP
.B float y;
// rectangles, arcs, text
.TP
.B float width;
// rectangles, arcs
.TP
.B float height;
// rectangles, arcs
.TP
.B float arc_start;
// arcs
.TP
.B float arc_length;
// arcs
.TP
.B Point *points;
// lines, polygons
.TP
.B unsigned npoints;
// lines, polygons (read only)
.TP
.B Figure *figures;
// groups (read only)
.TP
.B unsigned nfigures;
// groups (read only)
.TP
.B Pixmap pixmap;
// pixmaps, bitmaps
.TP
.B char *user_data;
// all figures
.TP
.B XFontStruct *font_struct;
// text (read only)
.PD
.RE
.fi
.PP
Only those fields which are valid for the specified figure type are defined.
The \fBuser_data\fR field is not used by the widget and is provided for the
use of the application writer.  The types of figures are shown below.
.PP
.RS
.B LineFigure
.br
.B PolygonFigure
.br
.B RectangleFigure
.br
.B ArcFigure
.br
.B TextFigure
.br
.B GroupFigure
.br
.B PixmapFigure
.br
.B BitmapFigure
.RE
.PP
The types of line styles are shown below.
.PP
.RS
.B DW_LineSolid
.br
.B DW_LineDashed
.br
.B DW_LineDotted
.br
.B DW_LineDotDashed
.br
.B DW_LineLongDashed
.RE
.PP
If \fIfigure\fR is \s-1NULL\s+1 then the structure pointed to by
\fIattributes\fR is unchanged.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Boolean DW_SetAttributes (drawing, figure, valuemask, attributes)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 19
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Figure
.B figure;
.TP
.B unsigned
.B valuemask;
.TP
.B FigureAttributes
.B *attributes;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetAttributes\fR changes the attributes of a previously drawn figure.
The figure whose attributes are to be changed is specified by \fIfigure\fR.
The attributes are specified in the structure pointed to by \fIattributes\fR.
Only those attributes as specified by the \fIvaluemask\fR are changed.  The
mask is a bitwise inclusive \s-1OR\s+1 of zero or more of the following
flags:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 24
.B DW_FigureGroup
// group
.TP
.B DW_FigureLineWidth
// line_width
.TP
.B DW_FigureLineStyle
// line_style
.TP
.B DW_FigureVisible
// visible
.TP
.B DW_FigureScaled
// scaled
.TP
.B DW_FigureColor
// color
.TP
.B DW_FigureFont
// font
.TP
.B DW_FigureText
// text and font_struct
.TP
.B DW_FigureX
// x
.TP
.B DW_FigureY
// y
.TP
.B DW_FigureWidth
// width
.TP
.B DW_FigureHeight
// height
.TP
.B DW_FigureArcStart
// arc_start
.TP
.B DW_FigureArcLength
// arc_length
.TP
.B DW_FigurePoints
// points
.TP
.B DW_FigurePixmap
// pixmap
.TP
.B DW_FigureUserData
// user_data
.TP
.B DW_FigureLocation
// x and y
.TP
.B DW_FigureSize
// width and height
.TP
.B DW_FigureArc
// arc_start and arc_length
.PD
.RE
.PP
If \fIfigure\fR is of type \fBGroupFigure\fR then all figures in the group
are modified.  If \fIfigure\fR is \s-1NULL\s+1 then no changes are made.  If
any errors occur then \fBFalse\fR is returned.  Otherwise, \fBTrue\fR is
returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_ClipBox (figure, clip_box)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 13
.B Figure
.B figure;
.TP
.B XRectangle
.B *clip_box;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_ClipBox\fR returns the actual window coordinates of the bounding box
for the figure specified by \fIfigure\fR.  The box is returned in the
structure pointed to by \fIclip_box\fR.  Note that unlike other functions the
first argument to this function is not a widget.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_TranslateCoords (drawing, x, y, rx, ry)
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 13
.B Widget
.B widget;
.TP
.B float
.B x, y;
.TP
.B float
.B *rx, *ry;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_TranslateCoords\fR translates from window coordinates to real
coordinates.  The window coordinate is given by (\fIx\fR,\fIy\fR).  The real
coordinate is retrieved as (\fI*rx\fR,\fI*ry\fR).  This function is useful in
action procedures where only the window coordinate is known.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Boolean DW_SetForeground (drawing, color)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B String
.B color;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetForeground\fR sets the foreground color for drawing new figures.  To
change the color of a previously drawn figure use \fBDW_SetAttributes\fR.
The new foreground color is specified by \fIcolor\fR which is passed to
\fBXParseColor\fR.  A cache of the assigned foreground color names is
maintained to improve lookup time.  If the color is successfully allocated
then \fBTrue\fR is returned.  Otherwise, \fBFalse\fR is returned and the
current foreground color remains unchanged.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Boolean DW_SetFont (drawing, font)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B String
.B font;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetFont\fR sets the font for drawing new text figures.  To change the
font of a previously drawn figure use \fBDW_SetAttributes\fR.  The new font
is specified by \fIfont\fR which is passed to \fBXLoadQueryFont\fR.  A cache
of the assigned font names is maintained to improve lookup time.  If the font
is successfully loaded then \fBTrue\fR is returned.  Otherwise, \fBFalse\fR
is returned and the current font remains unchanged.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_SetLineWidth (drawing, line_width)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 11
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B unsigned
.B line_width;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetLineWidth\fR sets the line width for drawing new figures.  To change
the line width of a previously drawn figure use \fBDW_SetAttributes\fR.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_SetLineStyle (drawing, line_style)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B int
.B line_style;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetLineStyle\fR sets the line style for drawing new figures.  To change
the line style of a previously drawn figure use \fBDW_SetAttributes\fR.  The
line style is specified by \fIline_style\fR (see \fBDW_GetAttributes\fR
above).
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_SetInteractive (drawing, interactive)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B interactive;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetInteractive\fR sets the \fBinteractive\fR resource of the widget to
the value specified by \fIinteractive\fR (see the \fBinteractive\fR resource
for details).
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_SetAutoFind (drawing, auto_find)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean
.B auto_find;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetAutoFind\fR sets the \fBautoFind\fR resource of the widget to the
value specified by \fIauto_find\fR (see the \fBautoFind\fR resource for
details).
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_SetAutoRedraw (drawing, auto_redraw)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Boolean;
.B auto_redraw;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SetAutoRedraw\fR sets the \fBautoRedraw\fR resource of the widget to
the value specified by \fIauto_redraw\fR (see the \fBautoRedraw\fR resource
for details).
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure *DW_SearchArea (drawing, points, npoints, nfigures)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 11
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Point
.B points [ ];
.TP
.B unsigned
.B npoints;
.TP
.B unsigned
.B *nfigures;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_SearchArea\fR searches the specified area and returns all figures
located within the area.  The area is specified as a polygon whose vertices
are given in the \fIpoints\fR array.  The number of vertices is specified by
\fInpoints\fR.  The number of figures within the area is returned in the
memory pointed to by \fInfigures\fR.  The figures are returned by the
function in space which has been allocated by \fBXtMalloc\fR.  The topmost
figure found will be first in the array.  If no figures are located within
the area then \fInfigures\fR will contain zero and \s-1NULL\s+1 is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure *DW_RetrieveAll (drawing, nfigures)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 11
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B unsigned
.B *nfigures;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_RetrieveAll\fR retrieves all the figures on the display list.  The
figures are returned by the function in space which has been allocated by
\fBXtMalloc\fR.  The topmost figure will be first in the array.  If no
figures are located within the area then \fInfigures\fR will contain zero and
\s-1NULL\s+1 is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "Figure DW_Group (drawing, figures, nfigures)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 11
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Figure
.B figures [ ];
.TP
.B unsigned
.B nfigures;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_Group\fR creates a new figure of type \fBGroupFigure\fR.  The members
of the group are specified by the \fIfigures\fR array.  The number of
members is specified by \fInfigures\fR.  Group figures are not placed on the
display list but do affect the \fBDW_RaiseFigure\fR, \fBDW_LowerFigure\fR,
\fBDW_RemoveFigure\fR, and \fBDW_SetAttributes\fR functions.  Groups may be
hierarchical.  The figure representing the group, or \s-1NULL\s+1 upon an
error, is returned.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_Ungroup (drawing, group)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B Figure
.B group;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_Ungroup\fR disbands the group pointed to by \fIgroup\fR and
deallocates the corresponding group figure.  The members of the group are
unaffected except that they will not belong to any group.
.PP
.sp
.nf
.B "void DW_GetTextExtents (drawing, string, width, height)"
.fi
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 9
.B Widget
.B drawing;
.TP
.B String
.B string;
.TP
.B float
.B *width;
.TP
.B float
.B *height;
.RE
.PD
.PP
\fBDW_GetTextExtents\fR retrieves the width and height of a text string, but
does not draw the string.  The text width and height are stored in \fIwidth\fR
and \fIheight\fR respectively.
.SH AUTHOR
The \fIDrawing\fR widget was developed by Darren C. Atkinson
(atkinson@ucsd.edu) and Jason I. Gobat (jgobat@mit.edu).
.SH SEE ALSO
velvet(1fe), xfelt(1fe).
.SH BUGS
Unscaled polygons are currently not implemented.  Greater control is needed
over drawing attributes such as fill patterns.  Scalable text figures need to
be implemented if I can ever figure out scalable fonts under \s-1X11R5\s+1.
The policies applied to grouped figures may need to be changed.  Figures may
be associated with only one widget and thus the \fIwidget\fR parameter to
many functions is redundant.

