.\"    This file is part of the FElt finite element analysis package.
.\"    Copyright (C) 1993-2000 Jason I. Gobat and Darren C. Atkinson
.\"
.\"    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"    (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"    GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"    Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH BURLAP 1fe "8/4/95" "Version 3.00" "Finite Element Package"
.SH NAME
burlap \- mathematical environment for FElt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B burlap
[\-help \fIfile\fR]
[\-source \fIfile\fR]
[\-quiet]
[\-interactive]
[\-no-interactive]
[\-alias]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIBurlap\fR is an interactive environment for finite element analysis.
It is intended to give you powerful Matlab-like capabilities when working
with finite element problems described by standard \fIfelt\fR(4fe)
problem description files.  It allows you to: define new element types
quickly and easily; prototype new analysis algorithms; massage the
results from existing analyses in new and innovative ways.
.SH AUTHOR
\fIBurlap\fR was developed by Jason I. Gobat (jgobat@mit.edu) and Darren
C. Atkinson (atkinson@ucsd.edu).
.SH SEE ALSO
corduroy(1fe), velvet(1fe), felt(4fe).
