.\"    This file is part of the FElt finite element analysis package.
.\"    Copyright (C) 1993-1996 Jason I. Gobat and Darren C. Atkinson
.\"
.\"    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"    (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"    GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"    Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH CORDUROY 1fe "2/25/94" "Version 2.1" "Finite Element Package"
.SH NAME
corduroy \- element mesh generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B corduroy
[\-help]
[\-debug]
[\-nocpp]
[\-cpp \fIfilename\fR]
[\-D\fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]]
[\-U\fIname\fR]
[\-I\fIdirectory\fR]
[\fIfilename\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fICorduroy\fR is an element mesh generator with a flexible input file
syntax (see \fIcorduroy\fR(4fe)) that writes a \fIfelt\fR(4fe) file to
standard output.  If no \fIfilename\fR is given then the standard input is
used.  Any syntactic or semantic errors are reported to standard error.  A
complete description of the mathematics can be found in the user's guide.
.SH OPTIONS
\fICorduroy\fR accepts the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-help
Write a message describing valid command line options to standard error
and exit.
.TP
.B \-debug
Write the processed file to standard error in the form of a valid input
file.
.TP
.B \-nocpp
Do not use a preprocessor on the input file.
.TP
.BI \-cpp " filename"
Use \fIfilename\fR as a preprocessor on the input file.  The default
preprocessor is "/lib/cpp".  Any preprocssor which understands the -D, -U,
and -I options can be used as these options are passed to the preprocessor.
.SH AUTHOR
\fICorduroy\fR was developed by Jason I. Gobat (jgobat@mit.edu) and Darren
C. Atkinson (atkinson@ucsd.edu).
.SH SEE ALSO
felt(1fe), velvet(1fe), corduroy(4fe), felt(4fe), burlap(1fe).
