.\"    This file is part of the FElt finite element analysis package.
.\"    Copyright (C) 1993-2000 Jason I. Gobat and Darren C. Atkinson
.\"
.\"    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"    (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"    GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"    Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH PATCHWORK 1fe "5/19/94" "Version 2.20" "Finite Element Package"
.SH NAME
patchwork \- file format conversion application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B patchwork
[\-help]
[\-iformat \fIfilename\fR]
[\-oformat \fIfilename\fR]
[\-nocpp]
[\-cpp \fIfilename\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIPatchwork\fR is a program to convert between different types of problem
description file formats. Obviously, it is mainly intended as a method to go 
back and forth between standard \fIfelt\fR(4fe) files and files formatted 
for input into other popular systems (e.g., DXF), but it could just as well 
be used to go between two of the alternative formats. In the above synopsis, 
\fBiformat\fR and \fBoformat\fR should be replaced with appropriate input and 
output format styles (see below).
.SH OPTIONS
\fIPatchwork\fR accepts the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-help
Write a message describing valid command line options to standard error
and exit.
.TP
.BI \-iformat " filename"
Currently, \fBiformat\fR should be one of \fBdxf\fR, \fBfelt\fR, or
\fBgraph\fR, specifying that the input is either a DXF file, a standard FElt 
input file, or a data file for a graphing application like \fIgnuplot\fR,
respectively.  A filename of "\-" indicates that input should be read from 
standard input.
.TP
.BI \-oformat " filename"
Currently, \fBoformat\fR should be one of \fBdxf\fR, \fBfelt\fR, \fBgraph\fR, 
or \fBlogan\fR, specifying that the resulting output should be formatted as
DXF, FElt, as input for \fIgnuplot\fR, or as appropriate input for the 
software that accompanies D.L. Logan's introductory finite element text.  A 
filename of "\-" indicates that the output should be written to standard 
output.
.TP
.B \-nocpp
Do not use a preprocessor on the input file.
.TP
.BI \-cpp " filename"
Use \fIfilename\fR as a preprocessor on the input file.  The default
preprocessor is "/lib/cpp".  Any preprocssor which understands the -D, -U,
and -I options can be used as these options are passed to the preprocessor.
.SH AUTHOR
\fIPatchwork\fR was developed by Jason I. Gobat (jgobat@mit.edu) and Darren
C. Atkinson (atkinson@ucsd.edu).
.SH SEE ALSO
felt(4fe).
