.\"    This file is part of the FElt finite element analysis package.
.\"    Copyright (C) 1993-1996 Jason I. Gobat and Darren C. Atkinson
.\"
.\"    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"    (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"    GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"    Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.TH VELVET 1fe "5/19/94" "Version 2.20" "Finite Element Package"
.SH NAME
velvet \- X11 based Finite ELemenT design and analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B velvet
[\-\fItoolkitoption\fR]
[\-sensitive]
[\+sensitive]
[\-numbers]
[\+numbers]
[\-nodeColor \fIcolor\fR]
[\-elementColor \fIcolor\fR]
[\-toolColor \fIcolor\fR]
[\-labelFont \fIfont\fR]
[\-toolFont \fIfont\fR]
[\-nocpp]
[\-cpp \fIfilename\fR]
[\-D\fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]]
[\-U\fIname\fR]
[\-I\fIdirectory\fR]
[\fIfilename\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIVelvet\fR is an X11 based finite element design and analysis package
based on the \fIfelt\fR(1fe) tool and the \fIfelt\fR(4fe) input file
syntax (velvet is smoother than felt).  If \fIfilename\fR exists
then it will be loaded upon startup.  \fIVelvet\fR attempts to locate a
saved parameter file upon loading an input file.  A saved parameter file
has a common prefix with \fIfilename\fR but a ".vlv" extension.  If
\fIfilename\fR does not exist or is absent then \fIvelvet\fR will start
with an empty problem with the appropriate name.  Details of the mathematics
and user interface can be found in the user's guide.
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to any standard toolkit option, \fIvelvet\fR accepts the
following options:
.TP 5
\fB\-sensitive\fR
Enable sensitive/insensitive menu switching.  \fIVelvet\fR has two major
modes of operation, normal mode and edit mode.  Each mode allows only certain
operations to be performed.  This option allows disabling of the menus
controlling the inactive operations.  This is the default behavior but
may be inappropriate on a slow server.  Associated resource: *sensitiveMenus.
.TP 5
\fB\+sensitive\fR
Disable sensitive/insensitive menu switching.  Associated resource:
*sensitiveMenus.
.TP 5
\fB\-numbers\fR
Enable node and element numbering.  This is the default behavior.  Associated
resource: *numbers.
.TP 5
\fB\+numbers\fR
Disable node and element numbering.  Associated resource: *numbers.
.TP 5
\fB\-nodeColor\fI color\fR
Sets the color of nodes and node numbers.  The default color is "blue".
Associated resource: *nodeColor.
.TP 5
\fB-elementColor\fI color\fR
Sets the color of elements and element numbers.  The default color is
"black".  Associated resource: *elementColor.
.TP 5
\fB-toolColor\fR color\fR
Sets the color of tools (rectangles, lines, circles) and interactive windows.
The default color is "red".  Associated resource: *toolColor.
.TP
\fB-labelFont\fR font\fR
Sets the font used for node and element numbers.  The default font is "5x8".
Associated resource: *labelFont.
.TP
\fB-toolFont\fR font\fR
Sets the font used for text drawn using the tools.  The default font is
"fg-22".  Associated resource: *toolFont.
.TP
.B -nocpp
Do not use a preprocessor on the input file.
.TP
.BI -cpp " filename"
Use \fIfilename\fR as a preprocessor on the input file.  The default
preprocessor is "/lib/cpp".  Any preprocssor which understands the -D, -U,
and -I options can be used as these options are passed to the preprocessor.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of the
widgets which compose \fIvelvet\fR.  The application defaults files contain
(for the most part) fully qualified resource names and should be consulted
if the resources are to be changed.
.SH AUTHOR
\fIVelvet\fR was developed by Jason I. Gobat (jgobat@mit.edu) and Darren
C. Atkinson (atkinson@ucsd.edu).
.SH SEE ALSO
corduroy(1fe), felt(1fe), burlap(1fe), felt(4fe).
